toh Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

designed to use the expanded awareness and highly focused attentiveness associated
with the Focus 12 state to imagine various colors in a particularly intense and
vivid manner so as to use them to resonate with and in turn to activate the body's
own energies, Fundamentally, in terms of practical application it is a healing
technique which is designed to restore the body and to enhance its physical
capabilities by balancing, yevitalizing and retuning bodily energy flows. It is
predicated on the principle that the body's electromagnetic field is capable of
altering its resonance pattern so as to entrain energy from the earth's
electrostatic field for its own use, The various colors envisaged in the
imagination as part of the technique cue the mind as to which frequencies and what
specific amplitudes are desired in connection with this entrainment and the
subsequent alterations in bodily energy flow patterns. That color has the capacity
to affect the human mind is well known, and the affectuality of color in certain
kinds of healing is a demonstrable fact. For example, application of an intense
blue light to an area of physical tumescence leads to relatively rapid and easily
observable reduction in the swelling while red, and to a lesser extent, yellow have
quite the opposite effect. However, in the Hemi-Sync application of the ‘technique
external light sources are not involved but, rather, the mind is the sole agent of
the healing and revitalization,

D. Energy Bar Tool. Magic wands and enchanted sceptors have been part of the
folklore and occult practices of many cultures. The scepters, staffs and maces
carried by monarchs and high priests alike occur with such frequency in the history
of bygone eras as to suggest that at the very least these items are aspects of some
type of archtypical symbol which the human mind seems to appreciate, perhaps quite
subliminally. In any case, the energy par tool technique involves envisaging 4
small, intensely pulsating dot of light which the participant charges in his
imagination with enormous energy until it is virtually pulsating. The participant
then extrudes the dot into the shape of a sparkling, vibrating cylinder of energy
which he then uses to channel force from the universe to selected parts of his body
for purposes of healing and revitalization.

E. Remote Viewing. In addition, the energy bar tool is used as a portal for
initiating a follow-on technique called "remote viewing." In this context, the
participant turns his bar of energy into a whirling vortex through which he sends
his imagination in search of new and illuminating insights. The apparent purpose
of the symbolism involved in the vortex seems to be to cue the subconscious and
convey to it instructions as to what the participant wishes to do but in terms of
nonverbal symbols which the right hemisphere of the mind is capable of
understanding.

F, Living Body Map. This technique provides amplification for application of
the energy bar tool as a means of healing specific areas or systems of the human
body. The configuration of the participant's body is imagined and then the various
major systems such as the nervous and circulatory systems are envisaged in
appropriate colors within the confines of the outline being held in the
imagination. The energy bar tool is then applied to energizing, balancing and
healing in whatever manner the participant desires. In the process, the
participant visualizes various streams of colored energy flowing out of the tool
into the organ system or area upon which the revitalizing or healing application is
being made. Since colors are the result of differing wavelengths of light, which
is to say energy at various frequencies, this technique operates on the assumption
that as the human body is composed of energy it can be vitalized and healed through
the additive application of additional energy provided that the energy is applied
in the appropriate form.

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CPA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
