oy Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

the major aspects of our intellectual journey from time-space to the realm of the
Absolute. We have spoken at some length concerning the incredibly complex hologram
which is created by the intersection of energy patterns generated by the totality
of all dimensions of the universe, time-space included. We have noted that our
minds constitute energy fields which interact with various aspects of this hologram
to deduce information which is ultimately processed through the left hemisphere of
our brains to reduce it to a form that we employ for the process we eall thinking.
We have implied that this hologram is the finite embodiment in active, energy form
of the infinite consciousness of the Absolute. It is the title we assigned to that
vast pool of energy in a state of perfect rest over which the physical universe is
layered, and from whence it comes. Incidentally, to describe this, Bentov uses the
analogy of a very deep sea, comparing the still depths of the sea to the dimension
of the Absolute while assigning the storm-tossed waves above to represent the
physical universe with which we are familiar. The slightly agitated currents of
the sea to be found in between the turbulent surface and the totally still depths
represent energy in the process of either going into rest(i.e. approaching
infinity) or coming out of rest. ‘

24. From Big Bang to Torus. Working from the widely accepted "Big Bang” theory
Bentov presents a conceptual model to depict the process of time-space evolution
the relative position of the universal hologram. That hologram is often called a
"porus" because it is thought to have the overall shape of an immense,
self-contained spiral. Basing his thesis on recent studies concerning the
distribution of quasars(quasi-stellar objects), and operating on the premise that
in the universe smaller processes tend to be mirror images of larger ones(i.e. the
pattern of electrons around the nucleus of an atom mirrors the way planets orbit
their suns, and so on) Bentov postulates the following scenario. Taking his cue
from the observed capability of quasars to eject enormously concentrated beams of
matter from their interiors in a controlled, non-concentric version of the
"Big-bang" he envisages a similar process occurring in the generation of the
universe(see Exhibit 4, next page). Noting that those galaxies located to the
north of our own galaxy are moving away faster than those located to the south, and
that those to the east and west are demonstrably more distant, Bentov regards this
as substantive evidence that the jet of matter which expanded into our universe has
turned back upon itself, eventually forming an ovoid or egg shape. He sees
"Matter" in our universe entering the ovoid pattern following ejection from a
nucleus composed of extremely compressed energy through a "white hole." At the end
of its trip to the far end of the ovoid, he sees it departing via a "black hole".
In such a model, time is observed to be a measure of the change which occurs as
energy evolves into new, more complex forms as it progresses along the distance
from the white hole side of the nucleus, around the shell of this "cosmic egg"
until it enters the black hole. In other words, as energy--expelled from infinity
and confined within limits by the conscious of the Absolute--achieves form and
motion following ejection from the white hole at the top of the egg, time begins as
a measure of the cadence of this evolutionary movement as “reality” goes around the
shell of the egg on its journey to the black hole at the far end.

25, Our Place in Time. The observed distribution of galaxies suggests that our
particular universe is located near the top of the egg at the point where matter
begins to fall back on itself, thus explaining the reason why the galaxies to the
north are seen to be moving away more rapidly as they are caught up in the downturn
of the stream of matter towards the far end of the cosmic egg(see Exhibit 5, next
page). Layered over this cosmic egg is the Absolute which sustains the radiating
nucleus from which the original jet of matter issued forth. As the stream of
matter moves around the ovoid towards its destination at the black hole where it

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : cl&-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
