ew Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

accummulated self-knowledge which its memories confer upon it. What it does lose
is the capability for generation of independent thought holograms, since that can
be done only by energy in motion, In other words, it retains the power to perceive
but loses the power of will or choice. In exchange, however, this consciousness
participates in the all-knowing infinite continuum of consciousness which is a
characteristic of energy in the ever present. Consequently, it is accurate to
observe that when a person experiences the out-of- body state he is, in fact,
projecting that eternal spark of consciousness and memory which constitutes the
ultimate source of his identity to let it play in and learn from dimensions both
inside and outside the time-space world in which his physical component currently
enjoys a short period of reality.

28. Gateway Method, Having put the Gateway Experience in context by postulating a
structural outline of how and why it seems to work, and having shown what it is
designed to achieve, the time has come to examine the specific techniques which
comprise the Gateway training process. These techniques are designed to enable the
user of the Gateway tapes to manipulate the high energy states which can*be
achieved if the user continues to work with the tapes over a period of time. The
amount of time required to reach advanced energy states and to fully exploit the
techniques varies with the individual, The sensitivity of his nervous system, his
general state of mind, and the extent to which he may have previously developed
facility in related techniques such as transcendental meditation are all pertinent
factors affecting the speed at which he may expect to progress, The Gateway
process begins by teaching the individual participant to isolate extraneous
concerns in a visualization device called an "energy conversion box."’ Next, the
participant is introduced to a method of encouraging his mind and body to strive to
achieve a state of resonance through utterance of a single tone, a monotonous,
protracted humming sound that sets up a feeling of vibration particularly in the
head, He engages in this "resonate tuning" as it is called by humming along with a
chorus of such sounds that are contained on the Gateway tape. Following this, the
participant is exposed to the Gateway affirmation, and is encouraged to repeat it
to himself as he hears it repeated on the tape. This affirmation is a statement to
the effect that the individual realizes that he is more than merely a physical body
and that he deeply desires to expand his consciousness.

29, Hemi-Sync Introduced. After that, he is exposed for the first time to the
Hemi-Sync sound frequencies, and is encouraged to focus on and develop a perception
of and appreciation for those feelings which accompany the synchronization of
brainwaves that results. Next comes the technique of progressive and systematic
physical relaxation while the Hemi-Synce frequencies are expanded to include
additional forms of “pink and white” noise designed to put the physical body at the
virtual threshhold of sleep as well as to calm the left hemisphere of the mind
while raising the right hemisphere to a state of heightened attentiveness. Once
all of this is achieved, the participant is invited to envisage creation of an
“energy balloon" comprised of an energy flow beginning at the center of the top of
the head and extending down in all directions to the feet, The energy involved in
this flow then proceeds up through the body and back out into the balloon pattern
again, The "energy balloon", which sets up a pattern very reminiscent of the
cosmic egg discussed earlier, not only enhances bodily energy flow and encourages
early achievement of a suitable resonant state but it is also designed to provide
protection against conscious entities possessing lower energy levels which the
participant might encounter in the event that he achieves an out-of-body, state,

It serves a precautionary purpose in the unlikely event that the participant's
first out-of-body experience involves direct projection outside the terrestrial
sphere.

19
Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
