\ ’ Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

This is an aspect of quantum mechanics which applies to the fact that any
oscillating frequency(such as a brainwave) reaches two points of complete rest
which constitute the boundaries of each individual oscillation(i.e. movement up or
a@own). Without these points of rest, an oscillating wave pattern would be
impossible since the points of rest are required to permit the energy toe change
direction and thus continue vibrating between rigid limits. But it is also true
that when, for an infinitesimally brief instant, that energy reaches one of its two
points of rest it "clicks out" of time-space and joins infinity(see Exhibit 3, next
page). That critical step out of time-space occurs when the speed of the
oscillation drops below 10733 centimeters per second(Planck's Distance). To use
the words of Bentov: "...quantum mechanics tell us that when distances go below
Planck's Distance, which is 107-33 cM, we enter, in effect, a new world." To

return to our case in point, the human consciousness wave pattern reaches such high
frequency that the pattern of "clickouts" comes so close together that there is
virtual continuity in it. Then, a portion of that consciousness is actually
postulated to establish and maintain its information collection function in those
dimensions located between time-space and the Absolute. Thus, as the almost
continuous "clickout" pattern establishes itself in continuous phase at speeds
below Planck's Distance but before reaching the state of total rest, human
consciousness passes through the looking glass of time-space after the fashion of
Alice beginning her journey into wonderland. The Gateway experience, with its
associated Hemi-Syne technique, is apparently designed, if used systematically and
patiently, to enable human consciousness to establish a coherent pattern of
perception in these dimensions where speeds below Planck's distance apply. This
holds true irrespective of whether the individual is exercising his consciousness
while in his physical body or whether he is doing so after having separated that
consciousness from the physical body(i.e. the so called out-of-body state mentioned
earlier).

20. Subatomic Particles. The behavior of subatomic particles provides an
interesting example of the phenomenon of "clicking out" discussed in the preceding
paragraphs. In an article prepared for Science Digest magazine, Dr. John Gliedman
mentions the way in which subatomic particles communicate with each other once
their energy fields become entrained as a result of colliding with each other, The
communication concerned is, of course, postulated to be occurring during the "click
out phase" in the oscillation of the energy fields comprising the subatomic
particles concerned, It is this cause which accounts for the cross-communication
at what in terms of time-space velocities, would seem to involve speeds in excess
of light. In reality Einstein's Theory of Relativity is not being invalidated but,
rather, the communication concerned is taking place outside the dimension of
time-space to which the Theory of Relativity is strictly confined. Specifically,
pr. Gleidman tells us: "Quantum theory postulates a kind of long range Siamese
twin effect whenever two subatomic particles collide and then go their different
ways. Even when the particles are halfway across the universe from each other, it
says, they instantaneously respond to each other's actions, And in so doing, they
violate relativity's ban on faster than light velocities." Indeed, regarding
attempts to quantify what is known about the behavior of energy in dimensions
apparently outside of time-space, Bentov speaks about, "...courageous physicists
who are working on hypothetical particles, called ‘tachyons,' which can move at
speeds higher than light. The speed of tachyons starts just above the speed of
light and ranges all the way to infinite velocities."

21, Dimensions In-between. Now that we have postulated the legitimacy of the
assertion that the energy forms which compose consciousness can move beyond the
time-space dimension, we need to turn our attention to the energy forms which

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
