rr’ Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

30. Advanced Techniques, Having reached Focus 10, the participant is now ready to
endeavor to achieve a state of sufficiently expanded awareness to begin actually
interacting with dimensions beyond those associated with his experience of physical
reality. This state is called Focus 12 and involves conscious efforts on his part
while additional forms of "pink and white noise" enter the sound stream being
directed into his ears from the Gateway tape. Once the participant has achieved
this state of greatly expanded awareness, he is ready to begin employing a series
of specific techniques or "tools" as the Monroe Institute characterizes them which
enable him to manipulate his newly found expanded awareness to obtain practical,
useful feedback of value for promoting self-discovery and personal growth. The
specific techniques involved are described individually below.

A. Problem Solving. This technique involves identifying fundamental problems
which the individual wishes to see solved, filling his expanded awareness with his
perception of these problems and then projecting them out into the universe. In
this way, the individual enlists the assistance of what Monroe Institute ‘calls his
"higher self", in other words his expanded consciousness, to interact with the
universal hologram to obtain the information required to solve the problem. This
approach may be used to solve personal difficulties, technical problems in the
realm of physics, mathmatics, etc., practical administrative problems, and 50 on,
Responses to the problem solving technique may be received almost immediately, but
often they come based on developing intuition over the next two to three days.
Frequently the response comes in the form of a sudden, holistic perception in which
the individual suddenly finds that he simply knows the answer in ail of its
ramifications and completely in context, sometimes without even being able to put
his newly found perception into words, at least initially. In some cases, the
response may even arrive in the form of visual symbols which the individual
will"see" with his mind while he is in the Focus 12 state and which he will have to
interpret after he returns to normal consciousness.

B. Patterning. This technique involves use of the consciousness to achieve
desired objectives in the physical, emotional, or intellectual sphere, It involves
concentration on the desired objective while in a Focus 12 state, extension of the
individual's perception of that objective into the whole expanded consciousness,
and its projection into the universe with the intention that the desired objective
is already a matter of established achievement which is destined to be realized
within the time frame specified. This particular methodology is based on the
belief that the thought patterns generated by our consciousness in a state of
expanded awareness create holograms which represent the situation we desire to
bring about and, in so doing, establish the basis for actual realization of that
goal. Once the thought-generated hologram of the sought after objective is
established in the universe it becomes an aspect of reality which interacts with
the universal hologram to bring about the desired objective which might not, under
other circumstances, ever occur. In other words, the technique of patterning
recognizes the fact that since consciousness is the source of all reality, our
thoughts have the power to influence the development of reality in time-space as it
applies to us if those thoughts can be projected with adequate intensity. However,
the more complicated the objective sought and the more radically it departs from
our current reality, the more time the universal hologram will need to reorient our
reality sphere to accomodate our desires. Monroe trainers caution against
attempting to force the pace of this process because the individual could succeed
in dislocating his existing reality with drastic consequences.

C. Color Breathing. The next technique is called color breathing and is

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CAO-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
