Oye Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

The Gateway Experience: Brain Hemisphere Synchronization in perspective.

1. Introduction, In order to deseribe the Monroe Institute technique for
achieving altered states of consciousness(the "Gateway Experience") involving brain
hemisphere synchronization or "“Hemi-Sync", the most effective way to begin is to
briefly profile the basic mechanics which underlay operation of related methods
such as hypnosis, transcendental meditation, and biofeedback. It is easiest to
effectively describe what Gateway is by beginning with a short description of those
associated techniques that share some common aspects with the Gateway Experience
but which are nevertheless different. In this way we can develop a frame of
reference at the outset which will provide useful concepts to explain and
understand Gateway by comparison, as we proceed.

2. Hypnosis. According to the theories of psychologist Ronald Stone and the
biomedical engineering models of Itshak Bentov, hypnosis is basically a technique
which permits acquisition of direct access to the sensory motor cortex and pleasure
centers, and lower cerebral(emotional) portions(and associated pleasure centers) of
the right side of the human brain following successful disengagement of the
stimulus screening function of the left hemisphere of the brain. The left
hemisphere of the brain is the self-cognitive, verbal and linear reasoning
component of the mind. It fulfills the function of screening incoming stimuli by
categorizing, assessing and assigning meaning prior to allowing passage to the
right hemisphere of the mind. The right hemisphere, which functions as the
noncritical, holistic, nonverbal and pattern-oriented component of the brain
appears to accept what the left hemisphere passes to it without question.
Consequently, if the left hemisphere can be distracted either through boredom or
through reduction to a soporific, semi-sleep state, external stimuli to include
hypnotic suggestions are allowed to pass unchallenged into the right hemisphere
where they are accepted and acted upon directly. The result may involve an
emotional reaction originating in the lower cerebral region, sensory/motor
responses requiring involvement of the cortex, and so on, Both the sensory and the
motor cortices of the right cerebral portion of the brain contain a sequence of
points known as the “homunculus” which corresponds to points in the body(see
Exhibit 1, next page). Stimulation of the corresponding area on the cortex causes
intermediate response in the associated portion of the body. Consequently,
induction of the suggestion that the left leg is numb, if it reaches the right
hemisphere unchallenged and is referred to the appropriate area of the sensory
cortex, will result in an electrical reaction being generated that will induce the
feeling of numbness. Similarly, the suggestion that the person is experiencing a
general feeling of happiness and well being would be referred to the appropriate
pleasure centers located in the lower cerebral portion or in the cortex of the
right hemisphere, thereby inducing the suggested feeling of euphoria. Finally,
suggestions such as one that informs the hypnotic subject that he enjoys enhanced
concentration or powers of memory would be responded to in the right hemisphere by
accessing unused information storage capacity normally held in reserve as a result
of left hemisphere selection and control processes. This aspect will become
significant in the context of the Gateway process when attention is given to
examining the way that hypnosis may be used to accelerate progress in the early
stages of the Gateway Experience.

3, Transcendental Meditation. on the other hand, transcendental meditation works
in a distinctly different fashion. In this technique, intense and protracted
single minded concentration on the process of drawing energy up the spinal cord
ultimately results in what appears to be creation of acoustical standing waves in
the cerebral ventricles which are then conducted to the gray matter in the cerebral

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
