“~~, Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

who have no experience in meditative techiques and whose progress in that
methodology is enhanced through effective visualization and external, objective
affirmation. Display of the subject's brainwave pattern on a cathode ray tube has
proven to be a laboratory-validated means by which subjects may quickly learn to
place themselves in profoundly relaxed states characterized by the sort of quietude
and singularity of mental focus associated with advanced meditation.

5. Gateway and Hemi-Sync. Now that we have briefly profiled the basic mechanics
of the principal techniques for altering or expanding consciousness which share
some of the objectives and/or methods employed in the Gateway Experience, we may
proceed to focus on what that technique actually involves. Fundamentally, the
Gateway Experience is a training system designed to bring enhanced strength, focus
and coherence to the amplitude and frequency of brainwave output between the left
and right hemispheres so as to alter consciousness, moving it outside the physical
sphere so as to ultimately escape even the restrictions of time and space. The
participant then gains access to the various levels of intuitive knowledge which
the universe offers. What differentiates the Gateway Experience from forms of
meditation is its use of the Hemi-Sync technique which is defined in a monograph by
Monroe Institute trainer Melissa Jager as, "a state of consciousness defined when
the EEG patterns of both hemispheres are simultaneously equal in amplitude and
frequency." Although Hemi-Syne seems to be rather rare and of only short duration

in ordinary human consciousness, Melissa Jager states that: "Audio techniques
developed by Bob Monroe can induce and sustain Hemi-Sync with the Institute's basic
Focus 3 tapes,..." She also notes that: "studies conducted by Elmer and Alyce

Greene at the Menninger Foundation have shown that a subject with 20 years of
training in Zen meditation could consistently establish Hemi-Syne at will,
sustaining it for over 15 minutes." Dr. Stuart qtwemlow, a psychiatrist and a
research associate of the Monroe Institute, reports that: "In our studies of the
effect of the Monroe tape system on brainwaves, we have found that the tapes
encourage the focusing of brain energy(it can be measured as with a lightbulb, in
watts) into a narrower and narrower ‘frequency band'. This focusing of energy is
not unlike the yoga concept of one pointedness, which we may translate in western
terms as a single-mindedness." Dr. Twemlow goes on to observe that as the
individual gets into the tapes beyond Focus 3, u .,there is a gradual increase in
brainwave size which is a measure of brain energy or power."

6. Lamp vs Laser: Melissa Jager uses a metaphor to help clarify the process
involved in the use of Hemi-Syne in the Gateway Experience. She points out that
the human mind in its natural state may be likened to an ordinary lamp which
expends energy in the form of both heat and light but in a chaotic, incoherent way
which a@iffuses its energy over a wide area of rather limited depth, On the other
hand, the human mind under the discipline of Hemi-Sync acts after the fashion of a
laser beam which produces a disciplined stream of light. The stream of energy is
projected with total coherence of both frequency and amplitude such that the
surface area of a laser beam contains billions of times the concentrated energy
found in a similar surface area on the sun, Gateway assumes that once the
frequency and amplitude of the human brain are rendered coherent, it is possible to
begin accelerating both so that the human mind is soon resonating at ever higher
vibrational levels, The mind can then bring itself into sycronization with more
sophisticated and rarified energy levels in the universe. The mind, when operating
at these increasingly rarified levels is assumed to be capable of processing the
information thus received through the same fundamental matrix by which it makes
sense of ordinary physical sensory input to achieve meaning in a cognitive

context. Such meaning is usually perceived visually in the form of symbols but may
also be perceived as astonishing flashes of holistic intuition or even in the form

4
Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
