ey Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

will be reabsorbed into the radiating nucleus and then the Absolute, it generates
the interference pattern within the cosmic egg which constitutes the universal
hologram or Torus. Since the Torus is being simultaneously generated by matter in
all the various phases of “time", it reflects the development of the universe in
the past, present and future(as it would be seen from our particular perspective in
one phase of time). By reflecting on this model, it becomes possible to "see" how
human consciousness brought to a sufficiently altered(focused) state could obtain
information concerning the past, present an future since they all exist in the
universal hologram simultaneously(In the case of the Future because all of the
consequences of the past and present can be seen coming together in the hologram
such that the future can be predicted or "seen" with total accuracy). Moreover, it
is possible to see how the implosion of energy patterns would cross and recross to
create an incredibly complex four dimensional hologram or Torus, in spiral shape in
reflection of the muliti-dimensional developing pattern of evolution. All of the
movements of the energies which comprise the universe leave their mark and hence
tell their story throughout time.

26. Quality of Consciousness, We noted earlier that the out-of-body state
involves projection of a major portion of the energy pattern that represents human
consciousness so that it may move either freely throughout the terrestrial sphere
for purposes of information aquisition or into other dimensions outside of
time-space, perhaps to interact with other forms of consciousness within the
universe. Consciousness is the organizing and sustaining principle that provides
the impetus and guidance to bring and keep energy in motion within a given set of
parameters so that a specific reality will result. When consciousness reaches a
State of sophistication in which it can perceive itself(its own hologram) it
reaches the point of selfcognition. Human beings have this form of elevated
consciousness as does the Absolute but in case of the latter, it is a function of
energy and its associated quality of consciousness in infinity(omniscience and
omnipotence in perceptual unity). when energy returns to a state of total rest
within the Absolute, it returns to the continuum of consciousness in the pool of
limitless, timeless perception that resides there, Thus, the more complex an
energy system in the "material" state, the more consciousness it possesses to
maintain its reality. Our consciousness, therefore, is that differentiated aspect
of the universal consciousness which resides within the Absolute. It accounts for
the organization of the energy patterns which constitute our physical body but is
distinctly separate from and superior to it. Since consciousness exists quite
apart from and outside of reality, beyond the bounds of time-space, it, like the
Absolute, has neither beginning nor end. Reality has both a beginning and an end
because it is bounded within time-space, but the fundamental quantum of energy and
its associated consciousness is eternal. When reality ends, its constituent energy
simply returns to infinity in the Absolute.

27. Consciousness in Perspective. Having ascertained that human consciousness is
able to separate from physical reality and interact with other intelligences in
other dimensions within the universe, and that it is both eternal and destined for
ultimate return to the Absolute we are faced with the question: "So what happens
then?" Since memory is a function of consciousness and therefore enjoys the same
eternal character as the consciousness which accounts for its existence it must be
admitted that when consciousness returns to the Absolute it brings with it all the
memories it has accumulated through experience in reality. The return of
consciousness to the Absolute does not imply an extinction of the separate entity
which the consciousness organized and sustained in reality. Rather, it suggests a
differentiated consciousness which merges with and participates in the universal
consciousness and infinity of the Absolute without losing the separate identity and

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : cl&- RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
