Cute Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

foot of his physical body) and sliding out through either end of his body.

32. Role of REM Sleep. It is interesting to note that Bob Monroe informed the
Gateway class that finished 7 May 1983 that an ex-trainer of his operating in
Charlottesville, Virginia found that he could guarantee out-of-body movements by
bringing participants down into a rapid eye movement(REM) state of sleep and then
use the Hemi~Sync tape technique. This may well be a function of the fact that
most if not all people reputedly go into an out-of-body state during REM sleep.

REM sleep is the deepest possible level of ordinary sleep and involves complete
disengagement of the body's motor cortex functions from the neck down and nearly
complete suppression of consciousness in the left brain hemisphere. The effect of
this is to put the body in a state of complete stillness so far as the skeletal
muscle structure is concerned, thereby further promoting the state of deep rest
needed to eliminate the bifurcation echo, In addition, it leaves the right
hemisphere of the brain free to respond to the instructions and suggestions
contained on the Gateway tape. However, use of the Hemi-Sync tapes at this point
may be less a factor in actually achieving the out-of-body state than it‘is a
matter of focusing the brain enough so that a residual memory of having naturally
achieved an out-of-body state is carried into the waking state. Indeed, it may
even be postulated that some dreams associated with deep levels of sleep are in
fact functions of the same kind of altered consciousness involved in interaction
with the universe that plays a role in all of the Focus 12, 15 and 21 states
described above. The difference between those states and the condition of the mind
in REM sleep seems to be that the left hemisphere is almost totally disengaged in
the latter experience such that memory of what was achieved in the altered states
of consciousness cannot usually be retrieved by conscious desire because the left
hemisphere has no knowledge of its existence or its location in the right
hemisphere. Admittedly, some people can be trained to remember their REM state
dreams through intense conditioning in the waking state but even that may be more a
function of establishing pathways in the right hemisphere which the left hemisphere
can access following reentry into the wakeful state than it is an indication of any
specific left hemisphere conscious involvement in the process during REM sleep. In
any event, the three apparent conditions required for voluntarily inducing an
out-of-body state in most individuals seems to be: (1) achievement of a state of
profound quiet in the body such that the bifurcation echo fades and resonance at
approximately 7 Hertz is established, (2) synchronization ef the two brain
hemisphere wave patterns, and (3) subsequent stimulation of the right hemisphere
of the mind to attain a state of heightened alertness(which, of course, interferes
with brain hemisphere synchronization but not until a sufficient level of enhanced
frequency range has first been established to help achieve the out-of-body state).

33, Information Collection Potential. The information acquisition potential
associated with the out-of-body state seems to attract the most attention from the
standpoint of developing practical applications for the Gateway technique.
Unfortunately, although the out-of-body state can apparently be achieved by many
people without excessive expenditure of time or effort, the purposes to which it
can be put are currently limited by the fact that although individuals in that
state may travel anywhere on an instantaneous basis in either the terrestrial or in
other spheres, information distortion in the former context remains a major
concern. To date, according to one of the trainers at Monroe Institute, numerous
experiments have been conducted involving persons moving from one coast to the
other in the out-of-body state to read a series of ten computer generated numbers
in a university laboratory. Although most have aquired enough of the digits to
make clear that their consciousness was present none have ever succeeded in getting
all ten correct. This seems to be a function of the fact that physical reality in

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CLA, RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
