‘ »
elk Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CIA-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5

G. Focus 15: Travel into the Past. All of the preceding techniques are
conducted at the level of expanded awareness known as Focus 12. However, the
technique of time travel into the past involves further expansion of consciousness
through the inclusion of additional levels of sound on the Hemi-Sync tapes. Some
of the sound is probably merely an intensification of the basic Hemi-Sync
frequencies, being designed to further modify brainwave frequency and amplitude.
Other aspects of the added sound patterns appear to be designed to provide subtle,
almost subliminal suggestions to the mind as to what is desired by way of further
expanded consciousness so as to support the verbal suggestions and instructions
also contained on the tape. Even the instructions are highly symbolic, with time
being visualized as a huge wheel in the universe with various spokes each of which
gives access to a different part of the participant's past. Focus 15 is a very
advanced state and is extremely difficult to achieve. Probably less than five
percent of all participants in any given Gateway Experience actually fully achieve
the Focus 15 state during the course of the approximately seven days of training.
Nonetheless, Monroe Institute trainers affirm that with enough practice, .eventually
Focus 15 can be achieved, They also state that not only the individual's past
history is available for examination by one who has achieved Focus 15 but other
aspects of the past with which the individual himself has had no connection may
also be accessed. ~

H. Focus 21: The Future. The last and most advanced of all the Focus states
associated with the Gateway training program involves movement outside of the
boundaries of time-space as in Focus 15 but with attention to discovering the
future rather than the past. The individual who has achieved this state has
reached a truly advanced level. Except in unusual circumstances, it is probably
not attainable except by those who have conditioned themselves through long
application of meditation or by those who have practiced long and hard through use
of the Hemi-Sync tapes for a period of months if not years.

31. The Out-of-Body Movement. This remarkable phenomenon has been saved for
discussion in detail until last because of the interest which it occasions and
special circumstances involved in its attainment. Monroe Institute stresses that
the Gateway program was not established solely for the purpose of enabling
participants to obtain the out-of-body state nor does the program guarantee that
most participants will succeed in doing it during the course of the training at the
Institute. Only one tape out of the many which make up the Gateway Experience is
devoted te the techniques involved in the out-of-body movement. Basically, these
techniques are merely designed to make it easier for the individual to achieve the
out-of-body state when his brainwave pattern and personal energy levels have
reached a point that he is in apparent harmony with his surrounding electromagnetic
environment such that he feels that he has reached the threshhold where separation
is a possibility. To facilitate achieving the out-of-body state, Bob Monroe, the
founder of Monroe Institute, is quoted in a recent magazine article as saying that
in order to assist the participant the particular Hemi~Sync tape concerned with
that technique employs Beta signals of "around 2877.3 CPS."(cycles per second).
Since 30 to 40 CPS is considered to be the normal range for Beta brainwave
signals(those associated with the wakeful state), it is apparent that the Monroe
Institute is convinced that the same heightened state of brainwave frequency output
which promotes altered states of consciousness is also an important consideration
in assisting in achievement of out-of-body states. The actual techniques employed
for separating from the body involve such simple maneuvers as rolling out, lifting
out after the fashion of a telephone pole wherein the individual separates ina
rigid, headfirst manner(such that he finds himself standing at attention at the

Approved For Release 2003/09/10 : CfR-RDP96-00788R001700210016-5
